# Summary for 10-26-2021 meeting

Ziyou Ren and Xizhi Xu

## In today's meeting, we discussed:

* the common biological terms people used to describe in the GWAS study:
    * This is a [good reference/cheatsheat](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/1677346) for the genetic jargons. You do not need to go through all of them. This is just for your reference. 
    * We go throught the preliminary analysis pipeline we have for this HS study. The details are in the slides that I shared with you previously. It will be good if you have an idea how the data were generated before your analysis starting point.

* the goal and biological implication for this project:
    * All the data are ~REAL~. The data are collected from patients with ~Hidradenitis Suppurativa~ and controls without this type of disease. 
    * There are 117 samples with 51 controls and 66 cases. 
    * We processed the data using the GATK workflow to a point that the data can be processed with the plink software.
    * Please do NOT share the data or distribute the data in any ways. This is just for the internship and research purpose.
    * The goal of this project is to:
        * Become familiar with the GWAS study design and tools.
        * Analyze a real dataset in clinical research.
        * (Potentially) Find the helpful SNPs that may identify HS in patients' DNA.

* the syntax of the PLINK software:
    * We go through the common binary data structure for PLINK files. e.g. BIM, FAM, BED
    * We go thtough some analysis commands of PLINK. e.g. -FREQ
    * PLINK [webiste](https://www.cog-genomics.org/plink/) and [file format guide](https://www.cog-genomics.org/plink/1.9/formats) are useful reference:
        * You do not need to go through all of those commands. But be sure to be familiar with some commands in Basic statistics, Association analysis, PLINK 1 binary INPUT.

* the video recording of today's meeting is on box. I share the folder via your email.
    * The path is GWAS_internship/Zoom_meeting

## Some tasks for you to try this week:
    
* the data are on the box folder. 
    * The path is GWAS_internship/Raw_data

* Please try to read these files into the plink and generate some summary statistics:
    * Please discard all SNPs that appear only one time in all samples.
    * You can try with -freq tag and other common statistics.

* Please try to filter the SNPs that is high in cases' than the controls' by the freq or the absolute number.

* Please try to generate a new set of filtered SNPs using the --make-bed commands in plink.
