# Summary for 11-09-2021 meeting

## In today's meeting, we discussed:

* Reviewing the previous session on how to calculate the frequency on the minor and major alleles in the cohorts.

* Hands-on expeirence in running the plink codes and interpreting the results.

* Detailed workflow (see below) on filtering out common variants in the populations.

## the plan for this week:

You can follow the steps below for the tasks we discssed during our meeting. There are some hints and tips on the running the tasks.

### Step I Importing the data and calculate the cohort based MAF for the data

* The following code can be used to calculate the cohort based MAF for the data.

```
plink --bfile XXXreplace with your file nameXXX --freq 'case-control'
```

* In the output files you can use any software to filter out the MAF larger in the case (MAF_A) than control (MAF_U). 
    * The output file for this step will be a txt file of varaints with larger MAF in cases.

* Tips: You are welcome to try the following codes and understand what the difference is:
```
plink --bfile XXXreplace with your file nameXXX --freq 'case-control' --nonfounders
```

or 

```
plink --bfile XXXreplace with your file nameXXX --freq 'case-control' --assoc 'counts'
```

### Step II Getting the population prevalance for the variant from Step I

* Use the best software or codes you like to query the AF on the population level for the variants in step I. The details on how to query the populational AF can found in the [previous summary part](../P03_FindAF/Summary_11022021.md). 

* If populational AF > 5%, a variant is common. Add a column to indicate whether the variant is common or not. 

* The output for this step should be a txt file with format like:

```
SNP  Population_AF  >5%
1_865625  0.06  TRUE
1_865645  0.03  FALSE
1_868353  0.23  TRUE
...
...
...
```
* Keep the variant with 

Population AF > 5% == TRUE

And generate a txt file with only the SNP column like (no header line):

```
1_865625
1_868353
...
...
...
```
* Hint: I upload [an excel file](https://uchicago.app.box.com/folder/148913279434) on box which I parsed out the population AF from the website. You can use this as a backup if you cannot figure a way to download the AF from website. You can use the column "TG_GAF_1000G" as the populational AF for your samples. But you have match both the CHROM and POS from excel to your data set CHR and POS.


### Step III Creating a new binary dataset with only the filtered variants:

After you have the list of SNP in the txt file, you can run the following commands in plink to generate a filtered plink dataset with only the variants in the txt file.

```
plink --bfile XXXreplace with your file nameXXX --make-bed --extract XXXreplace with your file nameXXX --out XXXreplace with the output name you wantXXX
```
You should see three new files with .bim, .fam, .bed after running the script.

Please upload the filtered file to the box folder.
